---
layout: default
title: Build Something Awesome
header_image: blackboard
---

h2. First Livestream!  Sat, Oct 20th, 10am PDT / 1pm EDT

I'll be doing my first live broadcast on Saturday, Oct 20th, 2012.  Tune in to learn how to write a simple Java program with graphics and animation--enough to get you started creating your own games, or experimenting with computer science.  Guaranteed simple and fun!

<!-- http://netbeans.org/downloads/ -->

If you'd like to be reminded when the livestream is about to start, <a href="http://eepurl.com/qngd5">register here</a>.

h2. Everyone can be a programmer

Have you ever finger-painted, noodled around on a guitar, or tried to write a story?  Chances are you've given at least one of those a try.

But what about writing a computer program?  **Build Something Awesome** is built around the idea that computer programming should be just as accessible as any other art form.

Admittedly, computer programming today still involves a bit of arcane knowledge, but smoothing over the confusing parts is what Build Something Awesome is all about.  All of the projects on this website are designed to be able to be completed in less than two hours.  So welcome, and I'm looking forward to seeing what you create!
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;--Aaron V.  (<a href="{{ site.url }}/bio.html">read more about me</a>)

{% comment %}
{% for post in site.posts %}
<h2><a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">{{ post.title }}</a></h2>

{{ post.date | date_to_string }} -- 
<a href="{{ site.url }}{{ post.url }}">read more...</a>

{% endfor %}
{% endcomment %}