---
layout: post
title: "Why <b>you</b> should be excited about computer programming (and this website)"
date: 2012-10-10 21:05
comments: true
categories: 
---

Earlier this week I talked about why *I* want you to like my website--but what's in it for *you*?

<!-- I've started putting together this website as a fun (and yes, educational) resource for people who may never intend to be a professional computer programmer to learn about programming.  I've found there are lots of reasons why people might be interested in programming, and here are a few of the big ones: -->

h3. If you've ever wondered about computer programming

So much of our lives and our culture today depend on computers and the internet that it's natural to be curious about how it all works.  Unfortunately, there isn't a lot of motivation in the computer software industry to make things easy to understand.  While there are thousands of ways to make computer programs, most are overly complicated (and unnecessarily so, in my opinion).  My goal with this website is to combine my experiences from designing computer programs and from teaching to create a resource that will allow anyone to sit down and immediately start enjoying writing computer programs.

{% comment %}
<!-- But one of the fascinating things about computing that makes it different from other sorts of technology that we interact with is that "abstraction":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstraction -->

<!-- What's great about computing is that new abstractions can be easily created, so it's the perfect topic to learn about because the relevant information can be easily isolated.  This is a teaching technique that I believe hasn't been fully explored, so I intend to develop it here @@. -->

The reason for this is that the concept of "abstraction":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstraction is fundamental to computer programming.  
(a topic I hope to delve into on this website in the future)
Computers are capable of simulating any other system, either in whole or in part.
As an example, suppose you're writing a book about the rise and fall off a civilization. 
Of course
{% endcomment %}

h3. If you want to express yourself more creatively

One of the most compelling reasons to learn about computer programming (and certainly the most fun reason) is that it allows you to explore creative ideas in much more varied ways than might otherwise be possible.  Graphic design, music, creative writing, robotics, photography, and video can all me generated, analyzed and interacted with using computer programs.  In the coming years, "3D printing":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/3D_printing will make sculpture and all sorts of crafting more programmable as well.  And with the growing adoption of smart phones and tablets, creating programs that interact with us in our daily basis becomes increasingly easier.  The possibilities of expression are nearly limitless!

h3. If you want to improve your analytical thinking

Not all pursuits in life require "analytical thinking":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Critical_thinking#Importance, but the ones that do (for example, managing your finances) can make a big impact on your life.  Computer programming is the absolute best way to practice analytical thinking, because the problems you solve a completely determined you.  If you like cars, you could write a racing game.  If you like cooking, you could write a recipe book program.  If you like physics, you could write a physics simulation.  If you like visual arts or music, you could write programs that draw graphics or produce sound.  Through computer programming, any topic that interests you can become a way to trick yourself into enjoying practicing your analytical thinking skills (and I hope to show a wide range of examples of this here on my livestream broadcasts).

<!-- I'm not going to guarantee anything here, but by learning a bit about computer programming, you may find an improved ability to 
stay calm when dealing with crises, and to 
have a better awareness of tradeoffs when faced with important decisions in your life. -->

h3. Just to try something new

So whatever your interest in computer programming may be, I hope this website will help make it easy for you to try it out.  If you want to keep in touch, you can "sign up to receive future updates":http://eepurl.com/qngd5, or tune in to my first "livestream":{{ root_url }}/livestream.html on Oct 20th, 2012 at 10am PDT / 1pm EDT.  I look forward to seeing what you'll create!

{% comment %}
h3. If you want to make a better tomorrow

I can't neglect one of the most vibrant aspects of computer programming: the culture that surrounds it.  Let's refer to The Jargon File, which is a glossary of programmer slang that originated 1975:

{% blockquote The Jargon File v4.4.8 http://catb.org/jargon/html/H/hacker-ethic.html %}
Hacker Ethic, the n. 1. The belief that information-sharing is a powerful positive good, and that it is an ethical duty of hackers to share their expertise by writing free software and facilitating access to information and to computing resources wherever possible.
{% endblockquote %}

You'll find that ideal that *information-sharing is a a powerful positive good* to be common among computer programmers.

{% blockquote &nbsp; http://quoteinvestigator.com/2011/12/13/swap-ideas/ %}
If you have an apple and I have an apple and we exchange apples then you and I will still each have one apple. But if you have an idea and I have an idea and we exchange these ideas, then each of us will have two ideas.
{% endblockquote %}

{% endcomment %}