---
layout: default
title: Build Something Awesome
header_image: blackboard
---

h2. First Livestream--Sat, Oct 20th, 10am PDT / 1pm EDT

I'll be doing my first live broadcast on Saturday, Oct 20th, 2012!  I'll be starting out by demoing how to write a Java program with graphics and animation.  So come join me to see the thought process behind creating a simple game and to learn how to set up your own simple Java projects to create your own games and experiment with computer science.  Guaranteed simple and fun!

<!-- http://netbeans.org/downloads/ -->

You can <a href="{{ root_url }}/livestream.html">tune in here</a>, or on <a href="http://www.justin.tv/avh4">justin.tv</a>.  And if you'd like a reminder, you can <a href="http://eepurl.com/qngd5">sign up to be notified when the livestream is about to start</a>.

h2. Everyone can be a programmer

Have you ever finger-painted, noodled around on a guitar, or tried to write a story?  Chances are you've given at least one of those a try.

But what about writing a computer program?  **Build Something Awesome** is built around the idea that computer programming should be just as accessible as any other art form.

Admittedly, computer programming today still involves a bit of arcane knowledge, but smoothing over the confusing parts is what Build Something Awesome is all about.  All of the projects on this website are designed to be able to be completed in less than two hours.  So welcome, and I'm looking forward to seeing what you create!
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;--Aaron V.  
{% comment %}
<!-- (<a href="{{ site.url }}/bio.html">read more about me</a>) -->
{% endcomment %}


<div class="blog-index">
  {% assign index = true %}
  {% for post in site.posts %}
  {% assign content = post.content %}
    <article>
      {% include article.html %}
    </article>
  {% endfor %}
</div>